====================
Documentation string
====================

.. contents:: Table of contents

------------
Introduction
------------

`pyplusplus`_ provides a convenient way to export documentation from C++ source
files as `Python`_ `documentation string`_

---------------
API description
---------------

::

  mb = module_builder_t( ... )
  my_class = mb.class_( 'my_class' )
  my_class.documentation = '"very helpful documentation string"'
  my_class.member_function( "do_nothing" ).documentation = \
      '"This function does nothing."'

In `pyplusplus`_ every class, that describes C++ declarations has ``documentation``
property. This property should contain valid C++ string or ``None``.

`boost.python`_ not always provides functionality, that exports documentation string.
In those cases, `pyplusplus`_ will not generate documentation string.

Also the previous method is pretty clear, it is not practical. There should be a
better way, to complete the task. Lets take a look on
``module_builder_t.build_code_creator`` method. One of the arguments of this method
is ``doc_extractor``.


``doc_extractor`` is a callable object, that takes one argument - reference to declaration.

::

  def doc_extractor( decl ):
    ...

How it could help? Every declaration has location information:

   * ``decl.location.file_name`` - absolute file name, where this declaration
     has been declared.

   * ``decl.location.line`` - line number.

So, you can go to the source file and to extract declaration from it.
`pyplusplus`_ will call ``doc_extractor`` on every exported declaration.

Now, when I think you understand what functionality `pyplusplus`_ provides.
It is a time to say what functionality is missing. `pyplusplus`_ does not
provide any documentation extractor. It is not completely true. You can find
document extractor for `doxygen`_ format in ``contrib/doc_extractors`` directory.
It has been contributed by Georgiy Dernovoy.


.. _`doxygen` : http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/
.. _`documentation string` : http://docs.python.org/tut/node6.html#SECTION006760000000000000000
.. _`pyplusplus` : ./../pyplusplus.html
.. _`boost.python`: http://www.boost.org/libs/python/doc/index.html
.. _`Python`: http://www.python.org
.. _`GCC-XML`: http://www.gccxml.org

..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   End:
