==============
Inserting code
==============

.. contents:: Table of contents

------------
Introduction
------------

`pyplusplus`_ is not a magician! Sometimes there is a need to add code to 
generated file(s). This document will describe how you can insert your code to 
almost any place. 

---------------------
Insert code to module
---------------------

Almost every ``boost.python`` module has next structure:

::

  //declarations code
  ...
  BOOST_PYTHON_MODULE(X)
  {
    //registrations code
    ...
  }
  
Using ``module_builder_t`` you can add code to declaration and registration 
sections. More over you can add the code to head or tail of the section. 
``module_builder_t`` class provides API, that will help you to complete the task:

* ``add_declaration_code( self, code, tail=True )``

  This function will add a code to the declaration section. If you want to add
  the code to the head of the section, pass ``tail=False`` to the method.
  
* ``add_registration_code( self, code, tail=True )``

  This function will ass a code to the registration section. If you want to add
  the code to the head of the section, pass ``tail=False`` to the method.

Example
-------

::

  mb = module_builder_t( ... )
  mb.build_code_creator( ... )
  mb.add_declaration_code( '//just a comment' )
  mb.add_registration_code( '//another comment', False ) #adding code to the head
  

--------------------
Insert code to class
--------------------

``class_t`` declaration defines few methods adds user code to the generated one.
Lets take a look on next use case:

::

  struct window_t{
      ...
      void get_size( int& height, int& width ) const;
      ...
  };

``int`` is immutable type in Python. So you can not expose ``get_size`` member 
function as is. You need to create a wrapper and expose it.

In the near future ``pyplusplus`` will eliminate the need of creating hand 
written wrapper for this use case.

::

  boost::python::tuple get_window_size( const window_t& win ){
      int h(0), w(0);
      win.get_size( h, w );
      return boost::python::make_tuple( h, w );
  }

Now you have to register it:

::

  using boost::python;
  class_< window_t >( ... )
      .def( "get_size", &::get_window_size )
      ...
  ;

How it could be achieved with `pyplusplus`_? Class declaration, has also two 
functions:

* ``add_declaration_code( self, code )``

  **Not implemented.**
  
  **Feedback is wanted.**
  
  **Please consider the relationship between this code and class wrapper code.**

  This method will add the code to the declaration section within the module.
  If you split your module to few files, `pyplusplus`_ will generate code, in a 
  way, that declarations you added, will be visible to registration code.
  
* ``add_registration_code( self, code, works_on_instance=True )``

  This method will add the code to the registration section of the class. 
  
  What is ``works_on_instance`` argument for? In our case, we added new method 
  to the class. The first argument of the call will be ``self``. 
  ::

    #From Python user can call this method like this:
    win = window_t( )
    height, width = win.get_size()

  If you will pass ``works_on_instance=False`` next code will be generated:
  ::

    {
        class_< window_t > window_exporter( "window_t" );
        scope window_scope( window_exporter );
        ...
        def( "get_size", &::get_window_size );
    }

  And in this case, user will be forced to pass reference to ``window_t`` object:
  
  ::

    win = window_t()
    height, width = window_t.get_size( win )

Example
-------
::

  mb = module_builder_t( ... )
  window = mb.class_( 'window_t' )
  window.add_declaration_code( get_window_size definition )
  window.add_registration_code( 'def( "get_size", &::get_window_size )' )
  #pyplusplus will add ';' if needed

----------------------------
Insert code to class wrapper
----------------------------

There are use cases, when you have to add code to `class wrapper`_. Please take a 
look on next thread: http://mail.python.org/pipermail/c++-sig/2006-June/010791.html .


.. _`class wrapper` : http://boost.org/libs/python/doc/tutorial/doc/html/python/exposing.html#python.class_virtual_functions


The short description is next: there are classes with parent/child relationship.
Parent keeps child class instances using raw pointer. When parent die, it also
destroys children classes. It is not an option to switch to ``boost::shared_ptr``.

The solution Niall Douglas found was to implement small life time manager. For
this solution he needed:

* to add to every constructor of class wrapper some code that registers the 
  instance of the class within the manager
  
* to add to destructor of class wrapper some code, that will destroy the instance 
  if needed.

* to add to class wrapper new variable

Solution
--------

::

  def inject_code( cls ):
      constructors = cls.constructors()
      constructors.body = class instance registration code
      cls.null_constructor_body = class instance registration code
      cls.copy_constructor_body = class instance registration code
      
      cls.add_wrapper_code( destructor declaration and definition code )
      cls.add_wrapper_code( the new class variable definition code )
      
::

  mb = module_builder_t( ... )
  for cls in mb.classes( relevant classes only ):  
    inject_code( cls )



.. _`pyplusplus` : ./../pyplusplus.html
.. _`pygccxml` : ./../../pygccxml/pygccxml.html
.. _`boost.python`: http://www.boost.org/libs/python/doc/index.html
.. _`Python`: http://www.python.org
.. _`GCC-XML`: http://www.gccxml.org

..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   End:
