=================
Py++ introduction
=================

.. contents:: Table of contents

-------------
What is Py++?
-------------

.. include:: ./definition.rest

--------
Preamble
--------

This introduction will describe code generation process using Py++.
I hope, that after you finished to read it, you will understand how powerful
Py++ is.

-----------------------
Code generation process
-----------------------

`Boost.Python`_ library allows you to expose C++ code to `Python`_ in quick and
elegant way. Almost the whole process of exposing declarations can be automated
by use of Py++. Code generation process, using Py++ consists
from few steps. Next paragraphs will tell you more about every step.


*"read declarations"*
---------------------

Py++ does not reinvent the wheel. It uses `GCC C++ compiler`_ to parse C++
source files. To be more precise, the tool chain looks like this:

1. source code is passed to `GCC-XML`_

2. `GCC-XML`_ passes it to `GCC C++ compiler`_

3. `GCC-XML`_ generates an XML description of a C++ program from GCC's internal
   representation.

4. Py++ uses `pygccxml`_ package to read `GCC-XML`_ generated file.

The bottom line - you can be sure, that all your declarations are read correctly.

.. _`GCC C++ compiler` : http://www.gnu.org/software/gcc


*"build module"*
-----------------

Only very small and simple projects could be exported as is. Most of the projects
still require human invocation. Basically there are 2 questions that you should
answer:

    1. which declarations should be exported
    2. how this specific declaration should be exported or, if I change a little
       a question, what code should be written in order I get access from Python
       to that functionality

Of course, Py++ cannot answer those question, but it provides maximum help to
implement an user requirements.

How can Py++ help you with first question? Py++ provides very powerful and
simple query interface. For example in one line of code you can select all free
functions that have two arguments, where the first argument has type ``int &``
and the type of the second argument is any:

.. code-block:: Python

  mb = module_builder_t( ... ) #module_builder_t is the main class that
                               #will help you with code generation process
  mb.free_functions( arg_types=[ 'int &', None ] )

An other example - the developer wants to exclude all protected functions from
being exported:

.. code-block:: Python

  mb = module_builder_t( ... )
  mb.calldefs( access_type_matcher_t( 'protected' ) ).exclude()

The developer can create custom criteria, for example exclude all declarations
that have 'impl' ( implementation ) string within the name.

.. code-block:: Python

  mb = module_builder_t( ... )
  mb.decls( lambda decl: 'impl' in decl.name ).exclude()

Please, note the way queries were built. You can think about those queries as
the rules, which will continue to work even after exported C++ code was changed.
It means that you don't have to change code generator source code every time.

So far, so good what about second question? Well, by default Py++ generates a
code that will satisfy almost all developers. Py++ relevant classes could be
configured in many ways to satisfy your needs. But sometimes this is still not
enough. There are use cases when you need full control over generated code. One
of the biggest problems, with code generators in general, is modifying generated
code and preserving changes. How many code generators did you use or know, that
allow you to put your code anywhere or to reorder generated code as you wish?
Py++ allows you to do that.

Py++ introduces new concept: code creator and code creators tree. You can think
about code creators tree as some kind of `AST`_. The only difference is that code
creators tree provides more specific functionality. For example ``include_t`` code
creator is responsible to create C++ ``include`` directive code. You have full
control over code creators tree, before it is written to disc. Here you
can find UML diagram of almost all code creators: `class diagram`_.

.. _`AST`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree
.. _`class diagram`: ./code_creators_uml.png

At the end of this step you have code creators tree, which is ready to be written
to disc.

*"write code to files"*
-----------------------
During this step Py++ reads code creators tree and writes code to the
disc. The result of code generation process should not be different from the one,
that would be achieved by human. For small project writing all code into single
file is good approach, for big ones code should be written into multiple files.
Py++ implements both strategies.

-------------
Features list
-------------

    * classes

        * class wrappers

        * two modes of code generation:

          * using scope - better error messages location from compiler

          * no scope

        * automatic detection of held type

        * nested classes

        * implicit conversion

    * functions

       * virtual methods

       * protected method, even non-virtual ones can be accessed from `Python`_.

       * overloading

       * two modes of code generation:

         * with function type - good for exporting template instantiated
           functions and overloaded ones.

         * without function type

       * static methods

       * code generated for wrapped methods takes into account types of arguments

       * operators, both free and member ones

       * call policies resolver

    * enumerations

    * variables, bit fields

    * namespace aliasing and using

    * writing multiple files

    * user code could be inserted almost any where

    * write code into file if there were changes

    * user license is written at the top of every file

    * extracting documentation from source files and integrating it with generated
      source code

    * ...

-------
License
-------

`Boost Software License`_.

.. _`Py++` : ./pyplusplus.html
.. _`pygccxml` : ./../pygccxml/pygccxml.html
.. _`Boost.Python`: http://www.boost.org/libs/python/doc/index.html
.. _`Python`: http://www.python.org
.. _`GCC-XML`: http://www.gccxml.org
.. _`Boost Software License`: http://boost.org/more/license_info.html

..
   Local Variables:
   mode: indented-text
   indent-tabs-mode: nil
   sentence-end-double-space: t
   fill-column: 70
   End:

